Docs(Glossary): glossary revamp (#341)
dgraph-io/dgraph-docs: content/dgraph-glossary.md

+++
title = "Dgraph Glossary"
description = "Dgraph terms"
[menu.main]
    name = "Dgraph Glossary"
    identifier = "glossary"
    weight = 15
+++

**Alpha**

> Dgraph consists of Zero and Alpha servers. Alpha servers host predicates and indexes. A Dgraph instance or a Dgraph cluster, has at least one Alpha server and can be scaled horizontally by adding more Alpha servers.

Reviewer: This isn't right. Alpha word can mean an Alpha instance, or the Alpha Group. Which are groups of Alphas instances. Zero should be removed from here. Cuz Zero belongs the 0 group. And we don't use the word "Server". Serve is the terminology for a machine who serves something. As Dgraph is a cluster, it is not a server. It is a program that lives between servers.

For example, a database server is a computer who have a database. But it can be any DB. The DB architecture isn't a server per se.

When you say "let's reboot the database server" you are not saying to reboot the database program. But the whole computer. Right?

**Badger**
A fast, open-source key-value database written in pure Go that provides the disk layer for Dgraph.
More at [Badger documentation](https://dgraph.io/docs/badger)

> **DQL** Dgraph Query Language is Dgraph's proprietary language to insert, update, delete and query data.

Reviewer: Can we fit "upsert" here somehow?

Author: There is an entry of upsert

**Entity<a name="entity"></a>** Traditional databases use the concepts of tables, rows and columns to store information. Dgraph key concepts are [entities](#entity) and [predicates](#predicate). An entity is "a thing" Dgraph knows something about. What Dgraph knows about an entity is simply its [UID](#uid) and a list of [predicates](#predicate).

**Edge**
In the mental picture of a graph: bubbles connected by lines ; the bubbles are nodes, the lines are edges.

> In Dgraph terminology edges are `entity predicates` i.e an information about the relation between two entities.

Reviewer: We also have "Value Edge" and "Edge". Edges are both value or conections. In general people say "edge" for everything. But when we wanna express the value. We should say "value edge".

> **GraphQL** is a declarative language for querying data used by application developers to get the data they need using GraphQL APIs. Dgraph supports the deployment of GraphQL data model (GraphQL schema) and automatically exposes a GraphQL API endpoint accepting GraphQL queries.

Reviewer: Elaborate with: We autogenerate GraphQL Resolvers. In another words, we save your time of doing a ton of code. Less code to maintain.

**gRPC** gRPC is a high performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework used by Dgraph to interface with clients. Dgraph has official gRPC clients for go, C#, Java, JavaScript and Python. Applications written in those language can perform mutations and queries inside transactions using Dgraph clients.

**Lambda** Dgraph takes care of all the logic to execute GraphQL queries when a GraphQL data model is deployed. Lambda provides a way to extend this capability and to write your custom logic integrated with Dgraph execution model.

**Mutation** A mutation is a request to modify server-side data. It is covering insert, update, or delete operations.

**Node**
In the mental picture of a graph: bubbles connected by lines ; the bubbles are nodes, the lines are edges.
Dgraph terminology favors the term [Entity](#entity), but the two terms are used interchangeably in our documentation.

> Node is also used in software architecture to reference a physical computer or a virtual machine running a module of Dgraph in a cluster. E.g : 'our archictecture has 3 Alpha nodes'.

Reviewer: Of means "a module of Dgraph in a cluster"?

Node can be a reference for "instance". e.g "3 Alpha instances".

Reviewer: what means***

**Predicate<a name="predicate"></a>** From [Cambridge Dictionary](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/predicate) a predicate is *the part of a sentence that gives information about the subject*. In Dgraph, a predicate is the smallest piece of information about an [entity](#entity). A predicate can hold a literal value or can describe a relation to another entity :
- when we store that an entity name is "Alice". The predicate is ``name`` and predicate value is the string "Alice". In that case, ``name`` is a **value predicate**.

> - when we store that Alice knows Bob, we may use a predicate ``knows`` for the entity representing Alice. The value of this predicate would be the [uid](#uid) of the entity representing Bob. In that case, ``knows`` is an **entity predicate** or a [relation](#relation).

Reviewer: "entity predicate" feels odd. Cuz the values are also from the entity. Maybe "link predicate"?

Reviewer: BTW. There are "levels" of usage of the terminology. Like predicates we talk more when talking about DQL schema, in the paper or the core code. But when we are doing Graph models. We never use "predicate". No one uses.

So for me there is a techincal level for paper and code of terms.
A graph model abstraction level.
A general Graph terminology coming from academics(scientific and mathematics).

For example, there's no "predicate" in graph theory as far as I know.

Author: Please review latest version where we use node and relationships.

**RATEL** Ratel is an open source tool for data visualization and cluster management that’s designed to work with Dgraph and DQL. More at [Ratel User's guide](https://dgraph.io/docs/ratel/overview/).

> **RDF**  RDF 1.1 is a Semantic Web Standards for data interchange. It allows us to make statements about resources. The format of these statements is simple and in the form of `<subject>> <predicate> <object>`.

Reviewer: RT. We could say as our own RDF. I was using something like "RDF-D". Cuz the format we use is a bit custom. Not used anywhere. Besides we can support some NQuads formats without especial characters.

Dgraph uses RDF format to create, import and export data. Note that Dgraph also supports JSON format.

**Relation<a name="relation"></a>** A relation is a predicate which object is an entity. It's simply an information that an entity is related to another entity. See [predicate](#predicate).

> **Sharding** Sharding is a database architecture pattern to achieve horizontal scaling allowing near-limitless scalability. This allows for data to be split and stored in multiple data nodes or servers and for nodes to be added when required to share the load. Dgraph colocates data per predicate, an approach referred to as 'predicate sharding'.

Reviewer: 'predicate sharding' this is confusing. We don't shard predicates. Predicates tablets that are sharded between groups. We should not make this confusion cuz there are feature requests for predicate sharding.

**Triple** Because RDF statements consist of three elements <subject> <predicate> <object> they are called triples.

**UID<a name="uid"></a>** UID is the Universal Identifier of an entity. `uid` is a reserved predicate holding the UID value. UIDs are generated by Dgraph when creating entities.

**Upsert** An upsert operation is an operation where an entity is searched for, and then
depending on if it is found or not, a new entity is created with associated predicates or the entity predicates are updated. Upsert operations are important to implement uniqueness of predicates.

**Zero**

> Dgraph consists of zero and alpha. servers. Zero servers control the Dgraph database cluster. It assigns Alpha servers to groups, re-balances data between groups, handles transaction timestamp and UID assignment.

Reviewer: No, Zero is a group or an instance of the group 0. The rest looks okay.

+++
title = "Dgraph Glossary"
description = "Dgraph terms"
[menu.main]
    name = "Dgraph Glossary"
    identifier = "glossary"
    weight = 15
+++

**Alpha**
Dgraph consists of different servers, zero and alpha. Alpha servers host predicates and indexes. A Dgraph instance, aka a Dgraph cluster, has at least 1 Alpha server and scale horizontally by adding more Alpha servers.

**Badger**
A fast, open-source key-value database written in pure Go that provides the disk layer for Dgraph.
More at [Badger documentation](https://dgraph.io/docs/badger)

**Dgraph**

> your preferred graph database ! Dgraph is a horizontally scalable and distributed database.

Author: I think we can remove this entry. Dgraph will be explained in the overview. Does not need to be in the glossary IMO.

> your preferred graph database ! Dgraph is a horizontally scalable and distributed database.

Reviewer 2: Yes!!! lets remove Dgraph as a Glossary entry.

**Dgraph Cloud**
The fully-managed version of Dgraph available as a service.
More at [Dgraph Cloud documentation](https://dgraph.io/docs/cloud)

**DQL** Dgraph Query Language is Dgraph's proprietary language to insert, update, delete and query data.

**Entity<a name="entity"></a>**

**Edge**

> In the mental picture of a graph: bubbles connected by lines ; the bubbles are nodes, the lines are edges.

Reviewer 2: Can we give a link to https://dgraph.io/docs/tutorial-2/ ?

Author: Let's talk about links. Glossary is not the menu. I think if the menu is clear people will easily find the concept page about entity and the tutorial about creating entities, edges etc ...
Plus menu is generated automatically where links must be maintained manually.

Reviewer 2: Yes!!! we should be able to dine the term independently. However, if some terms need additional context we can sparingly give a link. Here's of example of the Glossary https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/glossary/?fundamental=true

Author: Let's start with 'naked' glossary and then we will add a link to the concept page as we will create one to explain DQL including how to handle  entities and predicates ...

Reviewer: I mentioned before to use arrows instead of lines. Makes more sense and make the user used to directions.

In Dgraph terminology edges are `entity predicates`.

**GraphQL** is a declarative language for querying data used by application developers to get the data they need using GraphQL APIs. Dgraph supports the deployment of GraphQL data model (GraphQL schema) and automatically exposes a GraphQL API endpoint accepting GraphQL queries.

**Group**

**gRPC** gRPC is a high performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework used by Dgraph to interface with clients. Dgraph has official gRPC clients for go, C#, Java, JavaScript and Python. Applications written in those language can perform mutations and queries inside transactions using Dgraph clients.

**Lambda** Dgraph takes care of all the logic to execute GraphQL queries when a GraphQL data model is deployed. Lambda provides a way to extend this capability and to write your custom logic integrated with Dgraph execution model.

**Mutation** A mutation is a request to modify server-side data. It is covering insert, update, or delete operations.

**Node**

> In the mental picture of a graph: bubbles connected by lines ; the bubbles are nodes, the lines are edges.

Reviewer 2: Can we give a link to : https://dgraph.io/docs/tutorial-2/ for the mental picture.

Author: what about including a picture here if it helps ?

Reviewer 2: Lets avoid the detailed description. Lets try and emulate the Glossary terms similar to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/glossary/?fundamental=true

Reviewer: arrows here too

Author: Let's deply a first version and I start a new PR for improvements

> Dgraph terminology favors the term [Entity](#entity), but the two terms are used interchangeably in our documentation.

Reviewer 2: We must just stick to Entity in our documentation to avoid confusion . That would also mean we remove all references to node in the documentation.

Author: yes. I think we should use entity. But node term is used by graph folks too. So we should keep it in the glossary at least. 
I suggest to keep "but the two terms are used interchangeably in our documentation." until we are have cleaned the references (that could take a while) and then remove it when we have a reasonably low usage of "node"  term in the doc.

Reviewer 2: agreed!! PR to remove node in progress....

Reviewer: Well, node word is like 99% of the graph market. Entity was a new thing tho. Introduced 2 years ago in the docs.

If we gonna decide which one will be our main terminology. We should check what is the more prominent one.

**RDF**  RDF 1.1 is a Semantic Web Standards for data interchange. It allows us to make statements about resources. The format of these statements is simple and in the form of `<subject>> <predicate> <object>`.
Dgraph uses RDF format to create, import and export data. Note that Dgraph also supports JSON format.

**Relation<a name="relation"></a>** A relation is a predicate which object is an entity. It's simply an information that an entity is related to another entity. See [predicate](#predicate).

**Sharding** Sharding is a database architecture pattern to achieve horizontal scaling allowing near-limitless scalability. This allows for data to be split and stored in multiple data nodes or servers and for nodes to be added when required to share the load. Dgraph colocates data per predicate, an approach referred to as 'predicate sharding'.

**Triple** Because RDF statements consist of three elements <subject> <predicate> <object> they are called triples.

**UID<a name="uid"></a>** UID is the Universal Identifier of an entity. `uid` is a reserved predicate holding the UID value. UIDs are generated by Dgraph.

**Upsert**

**Zero**

> Dgraph consists of different servers, zero and alpha. Zero servers control the Dgraph database cluster : assign Alpha servers to groups, re-balance data between groups, handle transaction timestamp and UID assignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dgraph consists of zero and alpha. servers. Zero servers control the Dgraph database cluster. It assigns Alpha servers to groups, re-balances data between groups, handles transaction timestamp and UID assignment.
```
